'\" t
.\" $Id: uplib-certificate.1,v 1.5 2008/10/09 17:25:46 janssen Exp $
.\"
.\" This file is part of the "UpLib 1.7.11" release.
.\" Copyright (C) 2003-2011  Palo Alto Research Center, Inc.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
.\" 
.\" uplib-certificate.1
.TH UPLIB-CERTIFICATE 1 "UpLib 1.1 - http://www.parc.com/UpLib/"
.SH NAME
uplib-certificate \- maintain or inspect UpLib SSL certificates 
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBuplib-certificate\fR
[--repository=\fIrepository-url\fR]
[--repository=\fIrepository-root-directory\fR]
[--keystore=\fIfilename\fR]
[--storepass=\fIkeystore-password\fR]
[--java-default-trust-store]
[--certificate=\fIfilename\fR]
[--hostname=\fIfully-qualified-domain-name\fR]
[--safari=\fIfilename\fR]
[--verbosity=\fIlevel\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B uplib-certificate
is a command-line program to manipulate server certificates used by UpLib repository services.
It can be used in several ways:  to inspect a repository's certificate,
to fix or replace that certificate, to add a certificate from a file or repository to a Java
keystore, or to list the certificates in a Java keystore.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--repository=\fIrepository-url\fR
Specifies an UpLib repository's \fChttps:\fR URL.  If this appears as the only option, the subject and
dates for the repository's certificate are written to stdout.  If used in conjunction with a keystore
filename, the certificate will be added to the keystore if it's not already there.  If used with a keystore
filename, the \fC--storepass\fR option can also be used to avoid being prompted for the keystore's password.
.TP
\fB--repository=\fIrepository-root-directory\fR
Specifies an UpLib
repository's location (the top level directory).  If this appears as
the only option, the subject and dates for the repository's
certificate for the current hostname are written to stdout.  If the
certificate seems to be wrong (missing, or wrong location, or wrong
filename, or wrong hostname in the certificate), the certificate
filename will moved, or a new certificate with the right hostname will
be generated.  If used in conjunction with a keystore filename, that
certificate will be added to the keystore if it's not already there.
The \fC--hostname\fR option can be used to force consideration of a
hostname other than the current "native" hostname.  If used with a
keystore filename, the \fC--storepass\fR option can also be used to
avoid being prompted for the keystore's password.  If used with \fC--certificate\fR, the specified
certificate will be added to the repository.
.TP
\fB--hostname=\fIfully-qualified-domain-name\fR
For use with \fC--repository=DIRECTORY\fR to specify an alternate hostname to use when making new certificates.
If not specified, this defaults
to the standard UpLib technique for finding the fully-qualified-domain-name (e.g., \fCfoo.bar.com\fR) for the
machine on which this utility is being run.  This option can be specified multiple times on the same command line;
the generated certificate will contain all of the specified hostnames.  Some browsers, such as Safari on the
Mac, understand this.  Other browsers will only see one of the hostnames.
.TP
\fB--certificate=\fIfilename\fR
Specifies a filename containing a standard SSL server certificate.  If used with \fC--repository=DIRECTORY\fR, the certificate
will be moved to the repository.  If specified with \fC--keystore\fR, the certificate will be added to the keystore.  If specified
with both, both actions will happen.  If specified with neither, the subject and dates of the certificate will be displayed.
.TP
\fB--keystore=\fIfilename\fR
Specifies a file containing a Java keystore.  If used alone or with only \fC--storepass\fR, will produce a verbose display of the
certificates in the keystore.  If used with \fC--repository\fR, will make sure the certificate for the specified repository
is present in the keystore.
.TP
\fB--java-default-trust-store\fR
An alternate way of specifying a keystore file.  If the user's configuration file specifies a value
for \fCjava-default-trust-store\fR, that file will be used.  Otherwise, the Java default keystore for
cacerts will be used.  Should be used with \fC--repository\fR, \fC--certificate\fR, and \fC--storepass\fR
just as you would use \fC--keystore\fR.  If used alone, will produce a verbose display of the certificates
in the keystore.
.TP
\fB--safari=\fIfilename\fR
When used with \fC--repository\fR or \fC--certificate\fR, this produces a version of the certificate
in the X509 format used when adding a certificate to the Safari Web browser keychain.
.TP
\fB--storepass=\fIkeystore-password\fR
If used with the \fC--keystore\fR or \fC--java-default-trust-store\fR options, specifies the password to be used
for the keystore.
.TP
\fB--verbosity=\fIlevel\fR
Level should be an small integer specifying the UpLib debugging output verbosity.  Defaults to 1.
.SH EXAMPLES
To make sure a repository in \fC/home/user1/uplib-repo\fR has the right certificate for the current hostname:
.sp
\fC% uplib-certificate --repository=/home/user1/uplib-repo
\fR
.sp
To make sure that the certificate for an UpLib repository at \fChttps://foo.bar.com:8080/\fR is in the keystore at \fC/home/user1/my-keystore:
.sp
\fC% uplib-certificate --repository=https://foo.bar.com:8080/ \\
.br
        --keystore=/home/user1/my-keystore
\fR
.sp
To see what certificates are in the default Java keystore:
.sp
\fC% uplib-certificate --java-default-trust-store
\fR
.sp
To see what certificate is in a \fC.pem\fR file \fC/tmp/foo.pem\fR:
.sp
\fC% uplib-certificate --certificate=/tmp/foo.pem
\fR
.sp
.SH "CONFIGURATION FILES"
The standard UpLib configuration files are examined to get the values of \fCjavahome\fR and \fCjava-default-trust-store\fR.  See the man page for \fBuplib-add-document\fR for more information on these configuration files.  In addition, if \fCemail-address\fR is defined, it will be used as the value of \fCemailAddress\fR in any certificates created.
.sp
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
If the environment variable \fCUPLIB_CERTIFICATE_EMAIL_ADDRESS\fR is set, it will be included in new certificates as the \fCemailAddress\fR of the subject of that certificate.  This variable overrides the setting of \fCemail-address\fR in the configuration file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fCuplib-add-document (1), \fChttp://parcweb.parc.xerox.com/project/uplib/\fR.
.br
See \fChttp://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/tooldocs/solaris/keytool.html\fR for more information on Java keystore files.
.br
See \fChttp://www.openssl.org/support/faq.html\fR for more information on SSL server certificates.
.SH "BUGS"
Report bugs to \fCuplib-tech@parc.com\fR.
.SH "AUTHORS"
Bill Janssen, <janssen@parc.com>
