'\" t
.\" $Id: uplib-portal.1,v 1.4 2006/08/10 00:20:53 janssen Exp $
.\"
.\" This file is part of the "UpLib 1.7.11" release.
.\" Copyright (C) 2003-2011  Palo Alto Research Center, Inc.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
.\" 
.\" uplib-portal.1
.TH UPLIB-PORTAL 1 "UpLib 1.2 - http://www.parc.com/UpLib/"
.SH NAME
uplib-portal \- Run a document addition/retrieval portal on the desktop
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBuplib-portal\fR
[--animated]
[--emacskeys]
[--location=\fIX-position\fRx\fIY-position\fR]
[--noemacskeys]
[--noswirl]
[--size=\fIwidth\fRx\fIheight\fR]
[--titlebar]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B uplib-portal
will start a Java program which displays an icon which acts as a portal to one or more underlying UpLib repositories.
It can be used to add documents to a repository, or fetch them from a repository.  It functions as a shell over
the more fundamental \fBuplib-add-document\fR and \fBuplib-get-document\fR programs, hiding them from the user.
.SH OPTIONS
This program does not read configuration options from the default UpLib configuration file.  It does understand several
command line options, as follows:
.TP
\fB--emacskeys\fR
On non-Windows system, the text fields of the portal will use Emacs keybindings.  This switch can be specified
to also get them on Windows.
.TP
\fB--noemacskeys\fR
On non-Windows system, the text fields of the portal will use Emacs keybindings.  This switch can be used
to get the default Java bindings instead.
.TP
\fB--size=\fIwidth\fRx\fIheight\fR
Specifies the size of the portal icon as \fIwidth\fR by \fIheight\fR.  The default size is 64x64.
.TP
\fB--location=\fIX-position\fRx\fIy-position\fR
Specifies the initial location of the portal icon.  The default location is 0,0.
.TP
\fB--titlebar\fR
Specifies that the icon should have a titlebar, just like a regular program window.  The default is to not use a titlebar.
In Java Swing terms, this is the difference between using top-level JWindow or (with --titlebar) a top-level JFrame.
.TP
\fB--animated\fR
If this option is specified, the icon will move around (in a very small circle) on the desktop while something is going on (a document submission underway, or a search underway).
.TP
\fB--noswirl\fR
If this option is specified, the normal swirl animation is not performed when something is going on (a document submission or a search).
.SH EXAMPLES
It's usually a good idea to save the output from the program in a log file, as follows
.sp
\fC% uplib-portal >& /tmp/uplib-portal.log &
.br
%
.br
\fR
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
As a Java program, \fCuplib-portal\fR doesn't use any environment variables.
.SH "CONFIGURATION PROPERTIES"
\fCuplib-portal\fR uses a number of Java properties,
which are normally configured into the jar file,
but which can be set in the invocation, if desired.  They are:
.TP
\fBcom.parc.uplib.AddDocumentProgram\fR
The full path to the \fCuplib-add-document\fR program on this machine.
.TP
\fBcom.parc.uplib.Version\fR
The current UpLib version.
.TP
\fBcom.parc.uplib.GetDocumentProgram\fR
The full path to the \fCuplib-get-document\fR program on this machine.
.P
Since \fCuplib-portal\fR simply invokes \fCuplib-get-document\fR and \fCuplib-add-document\fR, the configuration options for those two programs are also relevant.  See their man pages for more information.
.SH "FILES"
\fCuplib-portal\fR will store its size and location on the screen, and the URL of the
selected repository (if any) in a persistent file, and read those values from
that file on startup.  On MacOS X systems, this file is
\fC~/Library/Preferences/com.parc.uplib.UpLibPortal\fR.  On non-Mac systems,
this file is \fC~/.uplib-portal-rc\fR.  In either case, the value of "~" is determined
by the value of the Java property "user.home".
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fChttp://parcweb.parc.xerox.com/project/uplib/\fR, uplib-get-document, uplib-add-document
.SH "BUGS"
Report bugs to \fCuplib@parc.com\fR.
.SH "AUTHORS"
Bill Janssen, <janssen@parc.com>
