'\" t
.\" $Id: uplib-janitor.1,v 1.2 2006/08/10 00:20:52 janssen Exp $
.\"
.\" This file is part of the "UpLib 1.7.11" release.
.\" Copyright (C) 2003-2011  Palo Alto Research Center, Inc.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
.\" 
.\" uplib-janitor.1
.TH UPLIB-JANITOR 1 "UpLib 1.1 - http://www.parc.com/UpLib/"
.SH NAME
uplib-janitor \- GUI interface for server-side repository maintenance
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBuplib-janitor\fR &
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B uplib-janitor
is a GUI program to inspect and maintain UpLib repositories.  It will display all
repositories owned by the user on the machine on which it is run, along with buttons
to display the guardian angel's log, to stop, start, or restart the angel,
to purge log files or deleted documents, to open a browser window on the repository,
and clear the password of a repository, if it has one.  The repository directory
will be displayed in black if the angel is running, in a lighter blue-gray if
it is stopped, and in orange if the angel seems to have a problem.
.PP
At the bottom of the janitor's panel, buttons are provided to start the UpLib portal,
to open the UpLib manual in a Web browser window, and to create a new repository.
These buttons are not associated with any specific repository.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fCuplib-portal (1), \fChttp://parcweb.parc.xerox.com/project/uplib/\fR.
.SH "BUGS"
Report bugs to \fCuplib-tech@parc.com\fR.
.SH "AUTHORS"
Bill Janssen, <janssen@parc.com>
